Wind Turbine - This is one of my favorite projects I've ever done. You don't often get the chance to work with industrial machinery like this! I obtained the generator for this project from the my school district. The only reason I was able to take it, was because of its label as "broken". Hearing this, I had the idea for this project and ran with it. I had never delt with electronics, or electrical engineering on this level what so ever, so to say this was biting off more than i could chew is an understatement. After finishing some initial designs, the real construction began. Taking old barrels from a local soybean plant, i fashioned it into the base as well as the blades of the turbine. Seeing this beauty spin for the first time was truly magical in every sense of the word.

Plastic Bottle - With my position as president of the environmental club at the local high school, I was privy to see much of the uncomfortable workings behind the scenes. One of these uncomfortable truths, was the incredible amount of waste that my school produced especially the recyclable waste that would just get thrown in the trash regardless. The other was the abysmal funding to our stem lab and related programs. To combat both these issues at once, i decided that I would design  a largely automatic device that would transform plastic bottles into useable 3d printer filament. it took many months of repetitive trial and error, many failed designs, and hours of research, but eventually, i made a first reliable prototype. Eventually, I donated this to the school so the students in the stem lab would be able to create their own filament, and create with out limitations.

Butterfingers - This project was born out of a simple question, "it can not be that hard to build" while watching pacific rim with my family, spoiler alert, it is. I started almost immediately, designing, drawing first drafts, and testing electronics. The first two months of this cycle were all failures. Over, and over again the device was either not strong enough. or not mobile enough. Hands are apparently incredibly dexterous and that dexterity is difficult to give any force to with the limited recourses i was able to salvage. Eventually, i was able to create a working version. The hand and arm were able to function, being both strong, yet dexterous, janky, yet functional. This project is certainly not finished quite yet, i still have the rest of the torso head and other arm to go, but its an incredible start on what my childhood self would have considered fiction.

Environmental Club President - The environment has always been incredibly important to me. growing up in rural Wisconsin, it surrounded me always. When I entered high school and saw an environmental club, it drew my attention. I never ended up joining, due to time restraints. Those time restraints would be lifted during my junior year, and i joined. At first, everything was scary, the large crowds at events, networking with strangers, and even the actual electronics behind some of the solar projects, it was all daunting. Slowly, it all became more familiar to me, i slowly settled into this fast pace environment. The year following, the president position was opened up. I lunged at the opportunity to make some real change. Many of many changes were not on the actual end goal or current projects of our environmental club. instead, i fought to streamline it, make our work more impactful with less effort, have what we do go farther, reach more people. I removed most of the redundant burdens that often weigh down high school clubs and schools, and pushed forward focusing on being as streamlined as possible with what we were doing. Having experienced this position and pathway, it has opened my eyes in a way i don't believe would be possible without it, and for that i am truly grateful.

Donation Garden - Gardening has always been around me. I used to watch my parents garden throughout the summer. They were always very particular about it. Obviously, being the oldest child, they would drag me out and put me to work, picking, pruning, cutting, working, digging, for hours during the summer. I hated every minute of it. It often felt pointless, the leaves would just grow back right? This mindset stayed throughout most of high school, I didn't enjoy gardening all that much. At a certain point however, my parents presence in our gardened lessened, old age, busy lives, whatever it may be, they simply couldn't, or didn't have the time. To this day i do not know quite what caused me to jump up and work on the garden, but i did. I worked every day of that summer on that garden, sure, it wasn't as good as it has once been, but it was slowly becoming mine. The summer that followed, i took charge, the garden was not partly mine, it was mine. this meant i had to plan, and for the first time, i was the one driving the ship. I had one goal when designing the garden, I wanted it to be as efficient as it could possibly be. I did just that, mathematically calculating out every inch, guaranteeing that i could produce as much produce as possible. when this eventually worked, i had produced way more than any of my family members could ever eat. I decided to donate all this produce i had to charity, eventually i donated over 200 pounds of fresh produce to families who needed it. I cannot wait to do this again this summer, and I'm sure i can produce even more!